Chapter 5.I. How Pantagruel arrived at the Ringing Island, and of the noise that we heard.
Chapter 5.II. How the Ringing Island had been inhabited by the Siticines, who were become birds.
Chapter 5.III. How there is but one pope-hawk in the Ringing Island.
Chapter 5.IV. How the birds of the Ringing Island were all passengers.
Chapter 5.IX. How we arrived at the island of Tools.
Chapter 5.V. Of the dumb Knight-hawks of the Ringing Island.
Chapter 5.VI. How the birds are crammed in the Ringing Island.
Chapter 5.VII. How Panurge related to Master Aedituus the fable of the horse and the ass.
Chapter 5.VIII. How with much ado we got a sight of the pope-hawk.
Chapter 5.X. How Pantagruel arrived at the island of Sharping.
Chapter 5.XI. How we passed through the wicket inhabited by Gripe-men-all, Archduke of the Furred Law-cats.
Chapter 5.XII. How Gripe-men-all propounded a riddle to us.
Chapter 5.XIII. How Panurge solved Gripe-men-all's riddle.
Chapter 5.XIV. How the Furred Law-cats live on corruption.
Chapter 5.XIX. How we arrived at the queendom of Whims or Entelechy.
Chapter 5.XL. How the battle in which the good Bacchus overthrew the Indians was represented in mosaic work.
Chapter 5.XLI. How the temple was illuminated with a wonderful lamp.
Chapter 5.XLII. How the Priestess Bacbuc showed us a fantastic fountain in the temple, and how the fountain-water had the taste of wine, according to the imagination of those who drank of it.
Chapter 5.XLIII. How the Priestess Bacbuc equipped Panurge in order to have the word of the Bottle.
Chapter 5.XLIV. How Bacbuc, the high-priestess, brought Panurge before the Holy Bottle.
Chapter 5.XLV. How Bacbuc explained the word of the Goddess-Bottle.
Chapter 5.XLVI. How Panurge and the rest rhymed with poetic fury.
Chapter 5.XLVII. How we took our leave of Bacbuc, and left the Oracle of the Holy Bottle.
Chapter 5.XV. How Friar John talks of rooting out the Furred Law-cats.
Chapter 5.XVI. How Pantagruel came to the island of the Apedefers, or Ignoramuses, with long claws and crooked paws, and of terrible adventures and monsters there.
Chapter 5.XVII. How we went forwards, and how Panurge had like to have been killed.
Chapter 5.XVIII. How our ships were stranded, and we were relieved by some people that were subject to Queen Whims (qui tenoient de la Quinte).
Chapter 5.XX. How the Quintessence cured the sick with a song.
Chapter 5.XXI. How the Queen passed her time after dinner.
Chapter 5.XXII. How Queen Whims' officers were employed; and how the said lady retained us among her abstractors.
Chapter 5.XXIII. How the Queen was served at dinner, and of her way of eating.
Chapter 5.XXIV. How there was a ball in the manner of a tournament, at which Queen Whims was present.
Chapter 5.XXIX. How Epistemon disliked the institution of Lent.
Chapter 5.XXV. How the thirty-two persons at the ball fought.
Chapter 5.XXVI. How we came to the island of Odes, where the ways go up and down.
Chapter 5.XXVII. How we came to the island of Sandals; and of the order of Semiquaver Friars.
Chapter 5.XXVIII. How Panurge asked a Semiquaver Friar many questions, and was only answered in monosyllables.
Chapter 5.XXX. How we came to the land of Satin.
Chapter 5.XXXI. How in the land of Satin we saw Hearsay, who kept a school of vouching.
Chapter 5.XXXII. How we came in sight of Lantern-land.
Chapter 5.XXXIII. How we landed at the port of the Lychnobii, and came to Lantern-land.
Chapter 5.XXXIV. How we arrived at the Oracle of the Bottle.
Chapter 5.XXXIX. How we saw Bacchus's army drawn up in battalia in mosaic work.
Chapter 5.XXXV. How we went underground to come to the Temple of the Holy Bottle, and how Chinon is the oldest city in the world.
Chapter 5.XXXVI. How we went down the tetradic steps, and of Panurge's fear.
Chapter 5.XXXVII. How the temple gates in a wonderful manner opened of themselves.
Chapter 5.XXXVIII. Of the temple's admirable pavement.
