Chapter 3.I. How Pantagruel transported a colony of Utopians into Dipsody.
Chapter 3.II. How Panurge was made Laird of Salmigondin in Dipsody, and did waste his revenue before it came in.
Chapter 3.III. How Panurge praiseth the debtors and borrowers.
Chapter 3.IV. Panurge continueth his discourse in the praise of borrowers and lenders.
Chapter 3.IX. How Panurge asketh counsel of Pantagruel whether he should marry, yea, or no.
Chapter 3.L. How the famous Pantagruelion ought to be prepared and wrought.
Chapter 3.LI. Why it is called Pantagruelion, and of the admirable virtues.
Chapter 3.LII. How a certain kind of Pantagruelion is of that nature that the fire is not able to consume it.
Chapter 3.V. How Pantagruel altogether abhorreth the debtors and borrowers.
Chapter 3.VI. Why new married men were privileged from going to the wars.
Chapter 3.VII. How Panurge had a flea in his ear, and forbore to wear any longer his magnificent codpiece.
Chapter 3.VIII. Why the codpiece is held to be the chief piece of armour amongst warriors.
Chapter 3.X. How Pantagruel representeth unto Panurge the difficulty of giving advice in the matter of marriage; and to that purpose mentioneth somewhat of the Homeric and Virgilian lotteries.
Chapter 3.XI. How Pantagruel showeth the trial of one's fortune by the throwing of dice to be unlawful.
Chapter 3.XII. How Pantagruel doth explore by the Virgilian lottery what fortune Panurge shall have in his marriage.
Chapter 3.XIII. How Pantagruel adviseth Panurge to try the future good or bad luck of his marriage by dreams.
Chapter 3.XIV. Panurge's dream, with the interpretation thereof.
Chapter 3.XIX. How Pantagruel praiseth the counsel of dumb men.
Chapter 3.XL. How Bridlegoose giveth reasons why he looked upon those law- actions which he decided by the chance of the dice.
Chapter 3.XLI. How Bridlegoose relateth the history of the reconcilers of parties at variance in matters of law.
Chapter 3.XLII. How suits at law are bred at first, and how they come afterwards to their perfect growth.
Chapter 3.XLIII. How Pantagruel excuseth Bridlegoose in the matter of sentencing actions at law by the chance of the dice.
Chapter 3.XLIV. How Pantagruel relateth a strange history of the perplexity of human judgment.
Chapter 3.XLIX. How Pantagruel did put himself in a readiness to go to sea; and of the herb named Pantagruelion.
Chapter 3.XLV. How Panurge taketh advice of Triboulet.
Chapter 3.XLVI. How Pantagruel and Panurge diversely interpret the words of Triboulet.
Chapter 3.XLVII. How Pantagruel and Panurge resolved to make a visit to the Oracle of the Holy Bottle.
Chapter 3.XLVIII. How Gargantua showeth that the children ought not to marry without the special knowledge and advice of their fathers and mothers.
Chapter 3.XV. Panurge's excuse and exposition of the monastic mystery concerning powdered beef.
Chapter 3.XVI. How Pantagruel adviseth Panurge to consult with the Sibyl of Panzoust.
Chapter 3.XVII. How Panurge spoke to the Sibyl of Panzoust.
Chapter 3.XVIII. How Pantagruel and Panurge did diversely expound the verses of the Sibyl of Panzoust.
Chapter 3.XX. How Goatsnose by signs maketh answer to Panurge.
Chapter 3.XXI. How Panurge consulteth with an old French poet, named Raminagrobis.
Chapter 3.XXII. How Panurge patrocinates and defendeth the Order of the Begging Friars.
Chapter 3.XXIII. How Panurge maketh the motion of a return to Raminagrobis.
Chapter 3.XXIV. How Panurge consulteth with Epistemon.
Chapter 3.XXIX. How Pantagruel convocated together a theologian, physician, lawyer, and philosopher, for extricating Panurge out of the perplexity wherein he was.
Chapter 3.XXV. How Panurge consulteth with Herr Trippa.
Chapter 3.XXVI. How Panurge consulteth with Friar John of the Funnels.
Chapter 3.XXVII. How Friar John merrily and sportingly counselleth Panurge.
Chapter 3.XXVIII. How Friar John comforteth Panurge in the doubtful matter of cuckoldry.
Chapter 3.XXX. How the theologue, Hippothadee, giveth counsel to Panurge in the matter and business of his nuptial enterprise.
Chapter 3.XXXI. How the physician Rondibilis counselleth Panurge.
Chapter 3.XXXII. How Rondibilis declareth cuckoldry to be naturally one of the appendances of marriage.
Chapter 3.XXXIII. Rondibilis the physician's cure of cuckoldry.
Chapter 3.XXXIV. How women ordinarily have the greatest longing after things prohibited.
Chapter 3.XXXIX. How Pantagruel was present at the trial of Judge Bridlegoose, who decided causes and controversies in law by the chance and fortune of the dice.
Chapter 3.XXXV. How the philosopher Trouillogan handleth the difficulty of marriage.
Chapter 3.XXXVI. A continuation of the answer of the Ephectic and Pyrrhonian philosopher Trouillogan.
Chapter 3.XXXVII. How Pantagruel persuaded Panurge to take counsel of a fool.
Chapter 3.XXXVIII. How Triboulet is set forth and blazed by Pantagruel and Panurge.
