Chapter 4.I. How Pantagruel went to sea to visit the oracle of Bacbuc, alias the Holy Bottle.
Chapter 4.II. How Pantagruel bought many rarities in the island of Medamothy.
Chapter 4.III. How Pantagruel received a letter from his father Gargantua, and of the strange way to have speedy news from far distant places.
Chapter 4.IV. How Pantagruel writ to his father Gargantua, and sent him several curiosities.
Chapter 4.IX. How Pantagruel arrived at the island of Ennasin, and of the strange ways of being akin in that country.
Chapter 4.L. How Homenas showed us the archetype, or representation of a pope.
Chapter 4.LI. Table-talk in praise of the decretals.
Chapter 4.LII. A continuation of the miracles caused by the decretals.
Chapter 4.LIII. How, by the virtue of the decretals, gold is subtilely drawn out of France to Rome.
Chapter 4.LIV. How Homenas gave Pantagruel some bon-Christian pears.
Chapter 4.LIX. Of the ridiculous statue Manduce; and how and what the Gastrolaters sacrifice to their ventripotent god.
Chapter 4.LV. How Pantagruel, being at sea, heard various unfrozen words.
Chapter 4.LVI. How among the frozen words Pantagruel found some odd ones.
Chapter 4.LVII. How Pantagruel went ashore at the dwelling of Gaster, the first master of arts in the world.
Chapter 4.LVIII. How, at the court of the master of ingenuity, Pantagruel detested the Engastrimythes and the Gastrolaters.
Chapter 4.LX. What the Gastrolaters sacrificed to their god on interlarded fish-days.
Chapter 4.LXI. How Gaster invented means to get and preserve corn.
Chapter 4.LXII. How Gaster invented an art to avoid being hurt or touched by cannon-balls.
Chapter 4.LXIII. How Pantagruel fell asleep near the island of Chaneph, and of the problems proposed to be solved when he waked.
Chapter 4.LXIV. How Pantagruel gave no answer to the problems.
Chapter 4.LXV. How Pantagruel passed the time with his servants.
Chapter 4.LXVI. How, by Pantagruel's order, the Muses were saluted near the isle of Ganabim.
Chapter 4.LXVII. How Panurge berayed himself for fear; and of the huge cat Rodilardus, which he took for a puny devil.
Chapter 4.V. How Pantagruel met a ship with passengers returning from Lantern-land.
Chapter 4.VI. How, the fray being over, Panurge cheapened one of Dingdong's sheep.
Chapter 4.VII. Which if you read you'll find how Panurge bargained with Dingdong.
Chapter 4.VIII. How Panurge caused Dingdong and his sheep to be drowned in the sea.
Chapter 4.X. How Pantagruel went ashore at the island of Chely, where he saw King St. Panigon.
Chapter 4.XI. Why monks love to be in kitchens.
Chapter 4.XII. How Pantagruel passed by the land of Pettifogging, and of the strange way of living among the Catchpoles.
Chapter 4.XIII. How, like Master Francis Villon, the Lord of Basche commended his servants.
Chapter 4.XIV. A further account of catchpoles who were drubbed at Basche's house.
Chapter 4.XIX. What countenances Panurge and Friar John kept during the.
Chapter 4.XL. How Friar John fitted up the sow; and of the valiant cooks that went into it.
Chapter 4.XLI. How Pantagruel broke the Chitterlings at the knees.
Chapter 4.XLII. How Pantagruel held a treaty with Niphleseth, Queen of the Chitterlings.
Chapter 4.XLIII. How Pantagruel went into the island of Ruach.
Chapter 4.XLIV. How small rain lays a high wind.
Chapter 4.XLIX. How Homenas, Bishop of Papimany, showed us the Uranopet decretals .
Chapter 4.XLV. How Pantagruel went ashore in the island of Pope-Figland.
Chapter 4.XLVI. How a junior devil was fooled by a husbandman of Pope- Figland.
Chapter 4.XLVII. How the devil was deceived by an old woman of Pope- Figland.
Chapter 4.XLVIII. How Pantagruel went ashore at the island of Papimany.
Chapter 4.XV. How the ancient custom at nuptials is renewed by the catchpole.
Chapter 4.XVI. How Friar John made trial of the nature of the catchpoles.
Chapter 4.XVII. How Pantagruel came to the islands of Tohu and Bohu; and of the strange death of Wide-nostrils, the swallower of windmills.
Chapter 4.XVIII. How Pantagruel met with a great storm at sea.
Chapter 4.XX. How the pilots were forsaking their ships in the greatest stress of weather.
Chapter 4.XXI. A continuation of the storm, with a short discourse on the subject of making testaments at sea.
Chapter 4.XXII. An end of the storm.
Chapter 4.XXIII. How Panurge played the good fellow when the storm was over.
Chapter 4.XXIV. How Panurge was said to have been afraid without reason during the storm.
Chapter 4.XXIX. How Pantagruel sailed by the Sneaking Island, where Shrovetide reigned.
Chapter 4.XXV. How, after the storm, Pantagruel went on shore in the islands of the Macreons.
Chapter 4.XXVI. How the good Macrobius gave us an account of the mansion and decease of the heroes.
Chapter 4.XXVII. Pantagruel's discourse of the decease of heroic souls; and of the dreadful prodigies that happened before the death of the late Lord de Langey.
Chapter 4.XXVIII. How Pantagruel related a very sad story of the death of the heroes.
Chapter 4.XXX. How Shrovetide is anatomized and described by Xenomanes.
Chapter 4.XXXI. Shrovetide's outward parts anatomized.
Chapter 4.XXXII. A continuation of Shrovetide's countenance.
Chapter 4.XXXIII. How Pantagruel discovered a monstrous physeter, or whirlpool, near the Wild Island.
Chapter 4.XXXIV. How the monstrous physeter was slain by Pantagruel.
Chapter 4.XXXIX. How Friar John joined with the cooks to fight the Chitterlings.
Chapter 4.XXXV. How Pantagruel went on shore in the Wild Island, the ancient abode of the Chitterlings.
Chapter 4.XXXVI. How the wild Chitterlings laid an ambuscado for Pantagruel.
Chapter 4.XXXVII. How Pantagruel sent for Colonel Maul-chitterling and Colonel Cut-pudding; with a discourse well worth your hearing about the names of places and persons.
Chapter 4.XXXVIII. How Chitterlings are not to be slighted by men.
