Chapter 1.I. Of the Genealogy and Antiquity of Gargantua.
Chapter 1.II. The Antidoted Fanfreluches:  or, a Galimatia of extravagant Conceits found in an ancient Monument.
Chapter 1.III. How Gargantua was carried eleven months in his mother's belly.
Chapter 1.IV. How Gargamelle, being great with Gargantua, did eat a huge deal of tripes.
Chapter 1.IX. The colours and liveries of Gargantua.
Chapter 1.L. Gargantua's speech to the vanquished.
Chapter 1.LI. How the victorious Gargantuists were recompensed after the battle.
Chapter 1.LII. How Gargantua caused to be built for the Monk the Abbey of Theleme.
Chapter 1.LIII. How the abbey of the Thelemites was built and endowed.
Chapter 1.LIV. The inscription set upon the great gate of Theleme.
Chapter 1.LV. What manner of dwelling the Thelemites had.
Chapter 1.LVI. How the men and women of the religious order of Theleme were apparelled.
Chapter 1.LVII. How the Thelemites were governed, and of their manner of living.
Chapter 1.LVIII. A prophetical Riddle.
Chapter 1.V. The Discourse of the Drinkers.
Chapter 1.VI. How Gargantua was born in a strange manner.
Chapter 1.VII. After what manner Gargantua had his name given him, and how he tippled, bibbed, and curried the can.
Chapter 1.VIII. How they apparelled Gargantua.
Chapter 1.X. Of that which is signified by the colours white and blue.
Chapter 1.XI. Of the youthful age of Gargantua.
Chapter 1.XII. Of Gargantua's wooden horses.
Chapter 1.XIII. How Gargantua's wonderful understanding became known to his father Grangousier, by the invention of a torchecul or wipebreech.
Chapter 1.XIV. How Gargantua was taught Latin by a Sophister.
Chapter 1.XIX. The oration of Master Janotus de Bragmardo for recovery of the bells.
Chapter 1.XL. Why monks are the outcasts of the world; and wherefore some have bigger noses than others.
Chapter 1.XLI. How the Monk made Gargantua sleep, and of his hours and breviaries.
Chapter 1.XLII. How the Monk encouraged his fellow-champions, and how he hanged upon a tree.
Chapter 1.XLIII. How the scouts and fore-party of Picrochole were met with by Gargantua, and how the Monk slew Captain Drawforth, and then was taken prisoner by his enemies.
Chapter 1.XLIV. How the Monk rid himself of his keepers, and how Picrochole's forlorn hope was defeated.
Chapter 1.XLIX. How Picrochole in his flight fell into great misfortunes, and what Gargantua did after the battle.
Chapter 1.XLV. How the Monk carried along with him the Pilgrims, and of the good words that Grangousier gave them.
Chapter 1.XLVI. How Grangousier did very kindly entertain Touchfaucet his prisoner.
Chapter 1.XLVII. How Grangousier sent for his legions, and how Touchfaucet slew Rashcalf, and was afterwards executed by the command of Picrochole.
Chapter 1.XLVIII. How Gargantua set upon Picrochole within the rock Clermond, and utterly defeated the army of the said Picrochole.
Chapter 1.XV. How Gargantua was put under other schoolmasters.
Chapter 1.XVI. How Gargantua was sent to Paris, and of the huge great mare that he rode on; how she destroyed the oxflies of the Beauce.
Chapter 1.XVII. How Gargantua paid his welcome to the Parisians, and how he took away the great bells of Our Lady's Church.
Chapter 1.XVIII. How Janotus de Bragmardo was sent to Gargantua to recover the great bells.
Chapter 1.XX. How the Sophister carried away his cloth, and how he had a suit in law against the other masters.
Chapter 1.XXI. The study of Gargantua, according to the discipline of his schoolmasters the Sophisters.
Chapter 1.XXII. The games of Gargantua.
Chapter 1.XXIII. How Gargantua was instructed by Ponocrates, and in such sort disciplinated, that he lost not one hour of the day.
Chapter 1.XXIV. How Gargantua spent his time in rainy weather.
Chapter 1.XXIX. The tenour of the letter which Grangousier wrote to his son Gargantua.
Chapter 1.XXV. How there was great strife and debate raised betwixt the cake-bakers of Lerne, and those of Gargantua's country, whereupon were waged great wars.
Chapter 1.XXVI. How the inhabitants of Lerne, by the commandment of Picrochole their king, assaulted the shepherds of Gargantua unexpectedly and on a sudden.
Chapter 1.XXVII. How a monk of Seville saved the close of the abbey from being ransacked by the enemy.
Chapter 1.XXVIII. How Picrochole stormed and took by assault the rock Clermond, and of Grangousier's unwillingness and aversion from the undertaking of war.
Chapter 1.XXX. How Ulric Gallet was sent unto Picrochole.
Chapter 1.XXXI. The speech made by Gallet to Picrochole.
Chapter 1.XXXII. How Grangousier, to buy peace, caused the cakes to be restored.
Chapter 1.XXXIII. How some statesmen of Picrochole, by hairbrained counsel, put him in extreme danger.
Chapter 1.XXXIV. How Gargantua left the city of Paris to succour his country, and how Gymnast encountered with the enemy.
Chapter 1.XXXIX. How the Monk was feasted by Gargantua, and of the jovial discourse they had at supper.
Chapter 1.XXXV. How Gymnast very souply and cunningly killed Captain Tripet and others of Picrochole's men.
Chapter 1.XXXVI. How Gargantua demolished the castle at the ford of Vede, and how they passed the ford.
Chapter 1.XXXVII. How Gargantua, in combing his head, made the great cannon-balls fall out of his hair.
Chapter 1.XXXVIII. How Gargantua did eat up six pilgrims in a salad.
